Well it's time to move on to another part of the process and that is rigging the mech for rigging we're
only going to need to see this guy here.
So I'll just select his layer and make sure everything else is on another layer.
And while it looks like we need to move this maybe I'll select this light and I'll press him and choose
layer one to move that over there.
So now we have him isolated and ready to work on all come out of textured mode and go back to solid
because we don't need to see any of the textures or materials.
Before we begin rigging we need to do some cleanup here we need to do some housekeeping chores.
I had mentioned before that it looked like the feet weren't on the ground plan and I went ahead and
fixed that.
Let me go to the three key and the five key and just mention this.
I pulled everything up so the feet kind of sit on the ground plane here and I should mention that it
is really best to have your character in the center of the grid the way I have him here.
Before you begin rigging so you may have noticed that I've kind of built the whole environment around
him and where he's going to land at the end of the scene.
I think this is a good practice to get into.
You'll see here as we go that there are a lot of tools and functions that you can use that are based
around the center of the grid like mirroring the joints from one side of the character to the other.
There's just a lot of benefits to making sure when you're dealing with a character that is in the center
of the grid and for this character he's going to have a lot of different pieces that are going to be
moving around and we're going to need to be able to parent those pieces to the individual bones that
are going to drive them that are going to move them.
So we're going to have a skeleton underneath this character that we're going to animate.
We are not going to animate the character directly we'll be animating the skeleton within the character.
So we need to go back and break up this Mac into its moving parts.
Currently I have the whole thing pretty much the whole thing.
As one object.
But that's not going to work.
So let's start thinking about how we can break up and combine this to make rigging a little easier.
I'm going to press the tab key to go into edit mode here.
So what I want to do is first of all break out the pieces of the body into its own object so I'm just
going to press the L key hovering over each piece pressing L for the pack and all of these.
Now because I have seams on here I'm having to do that multiple times maybe I should get rid of the
seams.
Let me do that.
I will select everything and press control and I'll clear seams so we don't have to worry about selecting
multiple parts of the same object.
So I'll select these with the L key and get all these together.
There we go so we have all those pieces.
Now I'll split them out with the P key and I'll separate them by selection.
So now that is its own piece and I'll find that here and it looks like it's called Jet 00.
So I'll call this mech body.
And I need to add a couple of things to this.
I need to add this little gril here so I'll take that and shift select the body press control J and
that will bring that gril into the mech body object.
Now I want to bring in the base of the spotlight into the body component so I'll hit tab and select
these parts of the spotlight press P split those out into their own piece.
So all tab out of there de-select everything else like that piece and then shift select body and then
press control.
And that bring them into that object I'm going to keep the spotlight its own piece because that's going
to need to move.
I'll take a look at these pieces here these pieces also need to be part of the main body so I'll select
those Schiff's select the Meck body and control J.
We'll bring those in.
Let's look at the panel back here.
Do I have this is its own piece.
Sure enough.
I'll select that shifts like the mech body control J and brings it in OK.
Now these tubes we finally need to deal with these.
I'm going to select this and remember that this is still a curve.
If we hit TAB we can see the curves here.
We're going to need to make this I think it will be easier.
Let me put it that way.
I think it'll be easier if these are part of the Meck body object.
So to do that I need to convert these two polygons so I can combine them to the polygon objects of the
Mech..
So I'm going to select one of the tubes go to object scroll on up here to convert to.
And I want to convert to a mesh polygon mesh from a curve.
So I click that.
And now that converts it from a curve to a polygon.
So if I hit tab you see that we can see the polygons of the two.
I'll do that with the other one.
You can also press alt C and then choose Masch from curve and there we go.
So now these two pieces we need to select Schiff's select the Meck body press control J.
And now those are brought into the fold of the mech body.
And notice what it did to it went ahead and applied that subdivision surface modifier to the tubes as
well.
So the next piece we need to look at is these arms.
Each of these arm pieces segments are going to rotate around a joint.
So this upper arm piece will rotate around this joint.
So those two pieces need to be one object.
So I'm going to tab into edit mode and select the upper arm with the L key as well as that sphere and
I'll press the P key and I'll separate those out by selection.
So now I go back to object mode de-select everything like that.
And I'll call this arm up and I'll add dot L for the left side.
So that's the upper arm.
So I'll do the same thing down here.
I will tab into edit mode select this with the L key as well as that elbow press the key selection.
And now
I can select it and give it a name.
You know what I can do is I can open the properties panel here and scroll down and under item I can
rename it here.
So I'll call this arm low for the lower arm dot L for the left side.
Now for the hand I'm going to go ahead and make this its own object.
So I'll tap into edit mode select the hand sphere here with the L key press P and separate by selection
and alt tab out of edit mode de-select everything selected just that hand and call it hand L and I'm
going to go ahead and go through the entire process with each of these fingers as well.
And what I'm going to do is have them rotate at the joint.
So let me just show you what I mean.
So for like this one if I select this object this this and this frame up that that it's going to all
be one object.
So let me just separate that by selection.
Tab back into object mode dislike everything and like just that piece.
So this is going to be one individual object and this I can call.
Let's call this.
Call it finger made three dot L and this one here will then be at me.
Select this all of these are separate this out.
Select it.
This one will be finger mid to dot L and on back.
So then I'll just I'll select this one piece and this will be finger made one dot L and I'll do that
for the index for the pinky for the thumb.
So each one of the joints of the fingers will be its own object.
So I'll go ahead and begin working on that.
All right so what I've done is I've gone ahead and split these up.
You can see that this one is finger thumb three and your thumb two finger thumb one and the reason why
I've just had them all begin with finger is so they'll all line up alphabetically and in the outliner
but.
So these are a finger index one two and three finger mid.
One two and three and fingered pinky one two and three and they coincide to these three pieces for two
of the digits.
And then just that single cube for the third digit they're so I'll need to do that to the other side
as well.
But for now I'm going to come in here and work on the legs and I'll select the upper leg piece and that
upper leg joint press P separate by selection.
Go back out to object mode de-select everything.
So like that and we'll call this leg up.
Well down here same thing it's like this piece and that joint and then piece selection
selected.
And call that leg low that El.